Advertising
Advertisements (ads) offer a way to monetize your app without compromising its user experience. This article gives an overview of what you need to display ads in your app.

Guidelines for integrating ads into your app
The Overwolf Ads SDK is a JavaScript library that allows App developers to show ads inside their applications. Overwolf manages, filters, and hosts these ads, which are then served in the app through the SDK.

You should consider the following technical details when working with ad containers:

The ad container should have a minimum width and height >= the largest ad size selected for this container.
The ad container should have no child elements other than the one generated by the SDK.
The ad container should always be visible in the app screen. In cases where you want to temporarily stop displaying ads, set the css display property of the ad's container to none. This stops the container from displaying ads until it is made to display again.
The ad container should not change/refresh when moving between different menus/pages/view if a window has multiple views. If you must change these containers, do not recycle them. Shut down each changed container and open a new one in the new target location.
Use OwAd.shutdown() to remove an ad container. Do this when you need to:
Change the ad container—shut down the current one, then create a new one with a new location/parent and new settings.
Remove the ad container—shut down the current one.
info
Contact us for any issues with ads or if you need advice on setting up effective and compliant ad experiences.

Ad policy
Overwolf is committed to maintaining a safe and productive advertising platform. We work tirelessly to maintain it in-house, with Advertising companies, or with app developers. In order to ensure that this environment is maintained, we ask app developers to make sure that you comply with the following policies:

Only advertisements displayed or distributed through Overwolf’s proprietary advertising platform may be displayed or distributed through applications.
important
If you manage an external website, you may not implement 3rd party <iframes/> with ads inside of your Overwolf app.

Avoid adjusting the opacity of ads presented to users. This helps maintain the integrity of the creative content and uphold industry standards.
Ad containers must be positioned in a way that clearly and visually mark them as part of the app's content. Ad containers:
May not be placed in a window without any other app content.
Must always be directly adjacent to other app content clearly marking them as part of the app.
Overwolf follows the industry Standards, Guidelines & Best Practices provided by the IAB.
info
Overwolf's ads traffic is constantly scanned with 3rd party anti-fraud and viewability tools to ensure that ad quality is kept high, and issues are swiftly dealt with.

Integration guidelines
Review the Ad planning guidelines to help you plan for ads in your app.
Then, follow the ads SDK integration guidelines for your platform. Feel free to contact our team should any questions or issues arise.
Once you have finished integrating ads in your app, the QA team will perform a final series of tests and provide feedback to make sure that everything is working as intended.
If all the tests pass, ads will be enabled and served to the users of your app.
Tracking ad performance
Only after ads are enabled for your app will ad data show up in your app's Developer's console dashboard.

You will also have access to a dedicated dashboard with extra ad performance analytics.

Demographics
Advertising budgets are more significant for Tier 1 countries. (e.g US, UK, CA, AU, DE).
If most of your app's users originate from Tier 1 countries, it’s likely that your CPM and yield will be higher.
To but to maximize revenues, focus your marketing efforts on Tier 1 countries. However, you can monetize ads in lower tier countries, but you may see lower monetization rates.
Ads tend to provoke negative responses from users, so don't create ad experiences that you wouldn't want to experience yourself. Follow the Ad guidelines for ways to integrate ads into your app without creating bad ad experiences.

General guidelines for ad experiences:

Don't create ad experiences that are actively intrusive/clash with the app's basic usage.
No more than one video Ad container may be placed on a single page at any moment.
Any manipulation of or interference with the ads integration is not allowed (e.g. Bots, auto clickers, constant page reloading, faking impressions, etc.).
Don't place ads on dead end/empty screens including:
Thank You pages.
Login pages.
Dialogue/Error/Notification pages.
Ad planning
The ad's policy can be a tricky thing. If you're uncertain about any part of it, or just have any questions about it, Contact us, and we will gladly help you with planning and implementing ads in your app.

--

User Identity / Hashed Emails
When advertising their products, advertisers often wish to target and track specific audiences, for whom the Ads are most likely to be effective. To tailor those Ads to specific users, as well as track their later performance, User Identity solutions are required.

Hashed emails have become a new method of letting advertisers identify and target users based on interests, without ever being exposed to the users' actual identities. This is due to ongoing shifts in the industry such as Google's move to deprecate third party cookies in addition to other trends.

Technical Specification
The process of working with Hashed Emails requires several steps:

Obtaining a user's Email Address consensually
One method to collect the user's email is through a sign-in process using the Overwolf OIDC authentication protocol.

Normalizing the user's Email Address
Hashing the user's Normalized Email Address
Exposing the hashed Email Address to select User Identity Providers, for use in Ads targeting.
You can implement this in two ways:

It is possible to pass the user's full Email Address to the Overwolf API. The API will then apply all of the relevant processing to the Email (2-4), and only save the finalized email hashes, for use in Ad targeting.

Example Usage
overwolf.extensions.current.generateUserEmailHashes("test.email@overwolf.com", console.log);

In cases where:

The App might not have access to the user's full Email Address, but it does have access to the hash.
Where it is desirable to minimize the spread of the "raw" Email Address as much as possible.
It is still possible to use this API, by passing the Email hashes directly (while performing steps 1-3 beforehand).

Example Usage
// Using the example email `test.email@overwolf.com`
overwolf.extensions.current.setUserEmailHashes({
  SHA1: '2c44f8a418bbfa88e80e3ce17d56cb30944f7675',
  SHA256: 'ac43b559f15c2eb262ea8d5d4921f639aaf1cde84bc280bad2e1879d0ded68c2',
  MD5: '170d78feecf2b8e7b804ba6b45af7ac2'
}, console.log);

Clearing Email Hashes
It is also possible to clear out the Email hashes, in cases where it is needed. To do so, simply set an empty Email Hashes object like so:

Example Usage
overwolf.extensions.current.setUserEmailHashes({}, console.log);

Third Party Cookie Deprecation
Before Hashed Emails, the standard method of tracking user identities for advertising revolved around Third Party Cookies.

Based on Google's decision to begin to deprecate support for Third Party Cookies in Chrome, advertisers are relying less on cookies and are looking for alternative ad targeting solutions.*

The help overcome this, Overwolf has chosen to collaborate with several industry leading User Identity providers in order to facilitate the usage of Hashed Emails.

--

Ad planning guidelines
It is important to understand the guidelines in this article for adding ads to you app. Also, see Ad sizes and Recommended ad layouts for available sizes and layout options.

Select the locations in the app where ad containers will be displayed. The following list of guidelines should be used:

Any window containing an ad container should have real tangible and continuous value for the user.
Some examples of where ads must NEVER be displayed
App signup/login windows.
App error/notification windows.
Windows displaying just the ad container.
App settings page.
Ad containers should be positioned in a way that clearly and visually marks them as part of the App's content. Specifically:
Ad containers should not be placed in their own window without any other meaningful content.
Ad containers should not be separated from the rest of the App's content by any invisible or transparent spaces.
Keep the ads as acceptable and non-invasive to the app's overall experience as possible. Too many ads, or parts of the app that feel like they are only there to show more ads, are causes of poor user experience.
The amount of ad containers you can use is limited. Use them wisely. Specifically:
Each app window may only have up to (or exactly) three active ads at any given moment (one video and two display, or three display).
With video ad containers, you can only have one active video ad container at any moment per app window.
If a certain app window has several views, try to make sure that ad containers do not change when moving between views. This ensures that the containers can stay active, regardless of the current view/changes in the view.
Ad containers should be placed where they won't be hidden. If your app utilizes pop-ups, make sure they don't block any ad containers.
Ad containers should be placed where they will be seen for more than a short moment. This can be achieved by using "dead" moments in games (i.e. loading screens, post-game screens, respawn timers, etc.).
When using video ad containers, try to keep the container's continuous visibility duration high. This ensures higher completion rates. For example:
A good average open time for video ads is 30 seconds.
A good average Completion Rate* for video ads is 70%.
* Completion Rate - measurement of ad completions out of the total ad views.

Ad planning
Ad planning can be a tricky thing. If you're uncertain about any part of it, or just have any questions about it, contact us, and we will gladly help you with planning and implementing ads in your app.

Multiple ad units on a single window (Mandatory)
You need to assign a unique ID to each container if you are implementing two identical ad units within the same window. This is required to comply with ad policy, allowing only one video ad per window at a time.

Use the following format to name each container:

appname_widthXheight_window_position

Example:

For an app named myApp with two 400x300 ad unit units on the desktop window, the container IDs should look like:

cid="myApp_400x300_desktop_top"
cid="myApp_400x300_desktop_bottom"

This ensures proper identification and tracking of each ad unit.

List of ad sizes
The following Ad container sizes are currently supported by the Ads SDK:

Container size	(ow-plat) Size value snippet	(ow-electron) Container min size snippet
400x300	{ width: 400, height: 300 }	min-width: 400px; min-height: 300px;
400x600	{ width: 400, height: 600 }	min-width: 400px; min-height: 600px;
300x250	{ width: 300, height: 250 }	min-width: 300px; min-height: 250px;
160x600	{ width: 160, height: 600 }	min-width: 160px; min-height: 600px;
728x90	{ width: 728, height: 90 }	min-width: 728px; min-height: 90px;
400x60	{ width: 400, height: 60}	min-width: 400px; min-height: 60px;
Overwolf loads ads of different sizes within the above container sizes. However, the container size determines the maximum size ad (or ads) loaded.

Ad sizes Are precise
Make sure to only enter values from a single line of the Size value snippet! Any unsupported values will potentially cause no ads to show!

Contact us if you want to use multiple ad sizes in a single container.

Displaying ads in a desktop app brings with it some challenges. More ads in more places would mean a higher revenue; however,both users and advertisers have their limits. For some users, too many ads that interfere with the app's basic functions will significantly hurt the app's usability, causing the users to leave. Also, advertisers may find that too many low-performing ads are not attractive.

As such, while ideally in order to display ads in an app, you would simply define one (or several) places where ads will be shown and everything else would work itself out, you have to keep the different involved parties in mind.

From a design perspective
It is recommended that you put ads in:

Unused margins.
Empty corners.
Areas often hidden by other windows.
In this way, dead space in the app's screens is used to display ads leaving the important space for the app's features, reducing the ads' impact on user experience.

From an advertising perspective
Ads come with many rigid constraints to ensure that advertisers get good return on their investment. These most often dictate that ads must:

Come in one of several preset ad container sizes.
Not move while they are playing.
Not actively compete with each other for the user's attention.
Always be fully visible.
Bridging the gaps
These constraints, while already conflicted, still don't even fully cover everything that would affect the app's ad/general performance when integrating ads. As such, Overwolf also places an extra set of constraints on ads displayed through the SDK, in order to maintain a healthy environment for advertisers, users, and app developers alike. For more information, see the Advertising policy.

All of those rules, when combined, make up the Ad planning guidelines. This is a set of simple rules designed to help you implement ads into your app properly, while keeping the different constraints in mind.
--
Recommended ad layouts
Planning your app layout with ads presents challenges due to the wide array of ad sizes available.

Below you will find a list of recommended and optimized ad container combinations/layouts. These recommendations aim to maximize advertisers' key performance indicators. Each layout is accompanied by a short summary and a rough estimate of potential revenue performance.

* Revenue estimates are generated based on aggregated performance data across the entire platform and across many countries and configurations.

Find the right layout
It is recommended to try to pick a few layouts you like, and see how they work for your app. Combine, experiment, and most importantly, get feedback from others. Contact us with any questions you may have.

All Windows
The following is a list of recommended Ad layouts for your different App windows.

Layout
Revenue Est. ($)
Overview
Tall Duo
$$$$$

Two large containers layout.

Dimensions: 400x600 + 160x600

Multiple Ads in Container*: True

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
Combo Classic
$$$$$

Two container layout.

Dimensions: 400x600 + 300x250

Multiple Ads in Container*: True

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
Studio Tower
$$$$

Two container layout.

Dimensions: 400x300 + 160x600

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
Tower
$$$$

One container and a leaderboard layout.

Dimensions: 400x600 and 728x90

Multiple Ads in Container*: True

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
Tower Plus
$$$$

One container and a small leaderboard layout.

Dimensions: 400x600 and 400x60

Multiple Ads in Container*: True

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
Studio
$$$

One container and a leaderboard layout.

Dimensions: 400x300 and 728x90

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
Studio Plus
$$

One container and a small leaderboard layout.

Dimensions: 400x300 and 400x60

Ad Formats: Video, Display

View Full
PopUp Studio Plus
$$

One container and a leaderboard layout.**

Dimensions: 400x300 and 400x60

Ad Formats: Video, Display

---

OwAd
Use the following guides to understand the best practices for including ads in your app.

For an overview on ads, see the overview on Advertising.
For information about working with ads, see Working with ads.
For information about layouts, see Recommended ad layouts.
For information about ad policy, see Advertising policy.
The Ads SDK creates simple Managed Ads Containers, which are controlled by the SDK with minimal intervention from the app.

Creating a Managed Ads Container
You must first set up the ads SDK in your app. This defines the [OwAd][owad] variable, which is instantiated and linked to a specific DOM element which creates the Managed Ads Container.

Multiple Ad containers
You need to create multiple instances of [OwAd][owad] If you want to show more than one ad in your app. Make sure you pass a different container element for each instance, and that you properly comply with our [acceptable Ads policy][acceptable-ads].

Setting up the Ads SDK
In order to use the Ads SDK in an Overwolf app, you must first fetch it from https://content.overwolf.com/libs/ads/latest/owads.min.js. Below is a snippet that fetches the SDK, and then sets up an OwAd instance:

Fetch the latest version of the Ads-SDK, and make sure it loaded
<script src="https://content.overwolf.com/libs/ads/latest/owads.min.js" async onerror="onAdsSDKNotLoaded()" onload="onAdsSDKReady()"></script>
<script>
    // Reached if the SDK's script failed to load (took too long, couldn't be found, etc)
    function onAdsSDKNotLoaded() {
        // If this happens, it is up to the app to decide how to proceed.
        console.error("Couldn't load owads.min.js!");
    }

    function onAdsSDKReady() {
        if (!OwAd) {
            // Reached if the SDK's script failed to properly load.
            // If this happens, it is up to the app to decide how to proceed.
            // onAdsSDKNotLoaded();
            return;
        }
        // Reached if the script loaded properly.
        // You can now create however many ad containers you need for this window, granted that they follow the implementation guidelines.
        let adContainer = new OwAd(document.getElementById(/*Insert ad container Id here*/), {/*Mandatory Ad settings*/});
    }

</script>


Snippet implementation notes
The script tag is added with an async attribute so that it is loaded asynchronously and won't interfere with the rest of the page's loading. Be aware that the script may take time to load and be ready. Use the onload and onerror callbacks from the script tag in order to be notified as soon as the load succeeded/failed.

When creating a new OwAd, you need to provide it with two parameters: a DOM element, and the required ad settings. In above snippet, the instance of the element is identified by calling document.getElementById(). However, you may use any other way to get the DOM element. You can also use document.querySelector, jQuery, or any other method you wish as long as the provided element is an HTML element available at the DOM.

Container Identification
Ad containers that don't have a pre-assigned element ID defined will automatically be assigned one.

Changes to your app’s manifest.json file
Required permissions
The Overwolf Advertising library uses Overwolf APIs to improve ad targeting for users. Therefore, you need to add the following permissions to your app’s permissions array:

   "permissions": ["Extensions", "Streaming", "Profile", "GameInfo"]

Multiple ad units on a single window (Mandatory)
You need to assign a unique ID to each container if you are implementing two identical ad units within the same window. This is required to comply with ad policy, allowing only one video ad per window at a time.

Use the following format to name each container:

appname_widthXheight_window_position

Example:

For an app named myApp with two 400x300 ad unit units on the desktop window, the container IDs should look like:

cid="myApp_400x300_desktop_top"
cid="myApp_400x300_desktop_bottom"

This ensures proper identification and tracking of each ad unit.

note
OwAd is an instance of an Overwolf Managed Ads Container. These can be created using the Overwolf Ads SDK.

Methods
new OwAd(container, settings)
Creates a new instance of OwAd.

Parameter	Type	Description	Required
container	DOM Element	The Ad's container element	Yes
settings	ContainerSettings	The container's desired size configuration(s)	No (defaults to a 400x300 Ad container if left empty)
Example
Creates a new OwAd, with the element ad-div as its container, with a container size of 400x300
let owAd = new OwAd(document.getElementById("ad-div"), {size: {width: 400, height: 300}});

shutdown()
Shuts down the Ads container completely.

For specific use cases, please refer to Guidelines for ad integration.

Example
Shut Down an existing OwAd instance
let owAd = new OwAd(...);
...

owAd.shutdown();

addEventListener(event, callback)
Adds a listener to a certain Ad event.

Parameter	Type	Description	Required
event	string	The name of the event to listen to	Yes
callback	(Result) => void	The callback that will be called when this event occurs	Yes
Example
Add an event listener to an OwAd
let OwAd = new OwAd(...);
...

OwAd.addEventListener("player_loaded", (name, ...) => {...});

Events
player_loaded (Video Only)
Fires when a Video Ad's player is successfully loaded into the page.

display_ad_loaded
Fires when a Display Ad was served to the container.

play
Fires when an Ad started "playing" (Video Ad started playing, or display Ad was presented).

impression (Video Only)
Fires when a Video Ad triggered an Impression. This happens at different intervals depending on the advertiser.

complete (Video Only)
Fires when a Video Ad completely finished playing.

error (Video Only)
Fires if an error occurred while loading a Video Ad.

note
The following events are supported in OW-Electron: player_loaded, display_ad_loaded, play, complete and impression.

house_ad_action
Fires when a house ad is clicked.

Types
ContainerSettings Object
List of settings that can be used when setting up an OwAd instance.

Parameter	Type	Description
size	ContainerSize	The size of Ad containers that this Ad container can become. See List of Ad Sizes
ContainerSize Object
Width/height settings of an Ads container.

Parameter	Type	Description
width	number	Width of the target Ad container size
height	number	Height of the target Ad container size
List of ad sizes
The following Ad container sizes are currently supported by the Ads SDK:

Container size	(ow-plat) Size value snippet	(ow-electron) Container min size snippet
400x300	{ width: 400, height: 300 }	min-width: 400px; min-height: 300px;
400x600	{ width: 400, height: 600 }	min-width: 400px; min-height: 600px;
300x250	{ width: 300, height: 250 }	min-width: 300px; min-height: 250px;
160x600	{ width: 160, height: 600 }	min-width: 160px; min-height: 600px;
728x90	{ width: 728, height: 90 }	min-width: 728px; min-height: 90px;
400x60	{ width: 400, height: 60}	min-width: 400px; min-height: 60px;
Overwolf loads ads of different sizes within the above container sizes. However, the container size determines the maximum size ad (or ads) loaded.

Ad sizes Are precise
Make sure to only enter values from a single line of the Size value snippet! Any unsupported values will potentially cause no ads to show!

Contact us if you want to use multiple ad sizes in a single container.